project2.md, before:

[Back to Portfolio](./)

Final Project - STIG Powershell Script
===============

-   **Class:** Object Oriented Programming - CSCI 325
-   **Grade:** N/A
-   **Language(s):** Java
-   **Source Code Repository:** [STIG Compliance]([])  
    (Please [email me](mailto:trthompson@student.csuniv.edu?subject=GitHub%20Access) to request access.)

## Project description

This program is a Statistics calculator. It is a GUI program in Java created using Netbeans. This program can take any comma seperated values, and calculate the mean, median, mode of said numbers. It can calculate produce output for those calculations individually or simultaneously. Upon the user providing input, the program "cleans" the data by removing spaces and commas to begin calculations.

## How to run the program

Download the ".ps1" file from the GitHub repository link. Then open Windows PowerShell ISE in administator mode, then open the file in the ISE and press the "run" button. 


## UI Design

When the program is ran in administrator mode, it'll proceed with all feature checks without any error messages (see Fig 1). If the program is not ran in administrator mode, the check for PowerShell v2, printing over HTTP, and TCP/IP compliance will throw an error message because the program needs to have elevated privilege to check those features (see Fig 2).

![screenshot](images/Scripting_adminMode.png)  
Fig 1. Example output when script is ran in administrator mode.

![screenshot](images/Scripting_noAdminMode.png)  
Fig 2. Example output when script is not ran in administrator mode.


For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

[Back to Portfolio](./)

Commit message:

Revise project description and usage instructions
Updated project description and instructions for compiling and running the program. Enhanced details on user interaction and UI design.

project2.md, after:

[Back to Portfolio](./)

Statistics GUI Calculator
===============

-   **Class:** Object Oriented Programming - CSCI 325
-   **Grade:** N/A
-   **Language(s):** Java
-   **Source Code Repository:** [STIG Compliance]([])  
    (Please [email me](mailto:trthompson@student.csuniv.edu?subject=GitHub%20Access) to request access.)

## Project description

This program is a Statistics calculator. It is a GUI program in Java created using Netbeans. This program can take any comma seperated values (CSV), and calculate the mean, median, mode of said numbers. It can calculate and produce output for those calculations individually or simultaneously. Upon the user providing input, the program "cleans" the data by removing spaces and commas to begin calculations, and stores the parsed numbers in an array to retrive them and perform calculations on them.

## How to compile and run the program

In the terminal navigate to the folder where the program resides, the run this command to compile the program:
javac StatisticsGUI.java

Then this command to run it:
java StatisticsGUI

## UI Design

The user can type their desired CSVs into the text field, and press the buttons to get the mean, median, mode, or all three. The user can continuously press buttons to get the next desired output without having to input their CSV again. The user can also change their CSV and get new calculations. When the user is finished, the can press the "close" button to exit the program. In total there are five buttons.

![screenshot](images/)  
Fig 1. Example output when script is ran in administrator mode.

![screenshot](images/)  
Fig 2. Example output when script is not ran in administrator mode.


For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

[Back to Portfolio](./)
